[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My name is Nassim Haramein.
I am a researcher
in unified physics.
I'm the director of research
at the Resonance Science
Foundation.
And I'm the executive
director of R&D at Torus Tech.
I work on many different things,
both theory and applications,
as well outreach to the
public and education,
but generally, I spend
most of my time working
in the laboratory
on applications
and on theoretical descriptions
of these new physics that
are emerging at this time.
Some of the
applications associated
with what I'm writing have to do
with energy production, gravity
control.
It's very, very high
level applications.
There's other applications
to health and life extension.
The applications
are very, very wide
reaching in all sectors
of society so it will--
if it's correct and
I believe it is--
then we're on the verge
of a very profound change
in our society.
Many different life events
got me into this work.
It was kind of a seamless path.
Probably, around the age of 10,
when I had very strong feelings
about the way we were
dealing with dimensions.
I was taught the typical story
about dimensions that's cool.
I didn't quite agree
with the whole axiom
and I came up with my own.
And I started to think
about it and look at nature
and try to understand it better.
Nature was talking
to me so I had
many moments of contemplation.
I wasn't thinking of it as I'm
developing this great theory.
I was just wanting to
understand reality.
I wanted to understand
how I got here.
And why was I even
able to be conscious.
And how this natural world
around me actually got there.
And what was making
it tick, like
how was it organized-- the
complexity being so incredible.
I just wanted to
know, and I started
to feel like there was patterns
that were underlying all this.
When I was about 12
or 13, we lived right
beside a movie theater
and I would, at night,
go outside and sit on a bench
at the exit of the movie theater
and I would look at people
come out of the movie theater.
And I had started to create
classifications of people.
I could see certain
genre of people,
like the way they walked.
The way they talked.
The way they moved.
The way they
interacted with people.
And I could see this
person is more like this.
And this person is more
like this and this.
And I was trying
to see patterns.
And then, eventually,
that led me
to think that I should describe
this fundamental pattern
in terms of the physics of it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I was spending a lot of
time at night studying
and eventually, the
study took over.
And I, of course, didn't have
proper support or financing
from the beginning
so I eventually, sold
all my equipment and
I moved into a van
so I didn't have to pay rent.
And my budget was
about $2,500 a year
and I spent five years in
a van studying full-time.
Serious amount of hours a day--
15 to 20 hours a day, even.
Very little sleep.
So I financed my study on my
own for many years and then,
eventually, I connected with
people that were interested.
And one of them being
Foster Gamble, that
supported me along
the way so that I
could continue the research.
And I was very fortunate.
I eventually found other
patrons that financed my lab
so that I could start doing
some hardware research.
But it has been a long journey.
There's been many ups and downs.
It's very difficult
to finance research
outside the academic world.
As well, there is
a lot of pushback
from the academic world.
There's a lot of
censoring that occurs.
So it's been a long
battle up the hill
to bring this information
out, but as well, look
at the applications of this
kind of new understanding
of the universe and its forces.
And what it can
bring to humanity.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In current theoretical
models of matter and energy,
there is fundamental questions
that are unanswered--
where magnetic fields come from.
Where mass comes from.
Where forces come from.
We know that gravity is
the curvature of spacetime
since Einstein, but spacetime
is not described by Einstein,
meaning we don't really
know what gravity is
and it doesn't fit into quantum
theory so well and so on.
So there's big holes
in our understanding,
meaning we have ideas of
things-- for instance,
we have a good
mathematical equation
that gives us equivalence
so we can measure things.
So that we can calculate
things like E equals
MC squared is a
famous equivalence.
We know that mass and
energy have equivalents,
but we don't know what mass
is so thus, we don't actually
know what energy is.
So these are very deep
lacks that are already
embedded in the
structure of the series
and so many things are built--
layers are built on top of
it and a lot of Band-Aids
are put on to try
to patch the holes.
But this new view emerged
from a deeper understanding
of the source of mass,
the source of charge,
the source of electric fields.
And the geometry or the
dynamics of creation,
meaning the fundamental pattern
that makes it possible not only
from matter to
emerge, but as well,
for organization to
occur, which is nowhere
present in the standard models.
Meaning the standard models of
physics don't have life in it.
There's no life that can
emerge from the equations
of relativity or
there's no life that
can emerge from the
equations of quantum physics.
None of this includes
the complexity
that emerge when we
look at natural systems.
In this new view,
it's quite different.
In fact, it's based on
a field of information
that's present everywhere.
And now that field
of information
is already inside
the standard model--
that is the Planck field,
this vacuum fluctuation,
was actually predicted by
quantum theory already almost
100 years ago.
It was just generally ignored.
It was thought to be a
background noise that you
didn't have to worry about it.
And what we're showing
is that no, actually,
that background noise is the
source of the organization that
produce matter, that
produces the force.
And actually, is the
source of creation.
And that field of
information actually
is in feedback structure.
Feedback in mathematical
equations-- for instance--
creates fractals that have
high level of complexity
and organization in very
short amount of iterations.
And it starts to be able to
explain why complexity emerged
so fast in the universe.
Because when we look at the
complexity-- for instance--
of a human being with 100
trillion cells made out
of 100 trillion
atoms each cell, is
way more complex
than anything that
could happen by random function.
So if it's not
random, what is it?
Well, the tendency is to think
that there's a God organizing
creation, but there's
another option.
And that option is
that there's feedback
of information between this
field and the material world.
The feedback loop that
I'm describing-- so
imagine a field.
And imagine that
it's like a fluid,
like your smoothie
in the morning.
And you've put all this
stuff in and you turn it on
and you can see it's
spinning in there.
And if you look at
the little particles
of the wonderful fruits
and vegetables you've
put them there,
you can see where
the particles are going out.
And they're going
back to the top.
And then going back
in and back out.
And back to the top
and back in and back
out in what is called
a toroidal structure.
And we see that in nature.
For instance, if you
look at galaxies.
If you look at the magnetic
fields of suns, of planets,
and so on you see this
toroidal structure.
And you have gravitational
fields involved.
It's fairly complex, but you
can imagine that information
can fall into a system and
then emerge at its equator
because the system is
spinning at high velocity.
And then get captured by
the gravitational field
of the system and
then, return inside.
And when it returns inside,
it has gone through a journey
and that journey has changed it.
So it's actually
feeding information back
into the system different than
the information that came out.
So the system is evolving now.
The system is
getting more complex.
And you see that in
nature everywhere.
You can see that nature is
reacting to its environment.
It adapts to its environment
because it's getting feedback
from the environment.
So it's like a study of
nature applied to physics,
that feedback appears
in nature according
to this because
it's present already
at insertion at the basis
of the physical world.
At the basis of the
way atoms come to be.
So you can think of atoms--
the material world-- as these
little vortex of information
that are spinning
very high velocity.
And that are making little
knots in the structure of space.
And we bump against these
knots and we think of it
as the material
world, but we know
it's made of 99.9999999% space.
And the thing we're
bumping against
is just an electrostatic feel
that actually is bouncing off
each other and so
we are actually,
just talking about charge in
space or information in space.
So it's a different
understanding
of our material world.
And since we're
made of it, then we
can start to think of
ourself a little bit
differently, as well.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Fractal mathematics
is a function
in mathematics in which
you have an equation that
gives an answer
and you are feeding
the answer back
into the equation
so that you have an
iteration process.
And so you can imagine--
like, for instance--
for people that are
visual, a simple triangle
and then a reverse
one put on top.
So you have a
symbol that's common
taught as the Star
of David or so on.
And then if you add
little triangles
on the next scale
on the next level,
then you'll have little Stars
of Davids that are developing.
And then you can keep
adding little triangles
and little triangles.
And then you zoom in, and then
keep adding them, and zoom in.
And you can go like
that to infinity.
The complexity can become
very, very complex.
Now that's a simple
geometry fractal structure,
but there is more complex
geometry fractal structure
that are beautiful.
The Mandelbrot
set-- for instance--
from Benoit Mandelbrot, that
was a very strong influence
in creating some
of these equations.
And then, eventually, you
get in a very short amount
of time, a very strong
replication of the pattern
at many different scales.
And you see that in
nature very much so.
Fractal mathematics are
used widely in animation,
especially in Hollywood
when they're trying
to reproduce a natural scene.
So we have mathematics
that can reproduce
man-made things, like buildings,
and cubes, and squares.
But if we want to
make natural scenes,
then we have to find
mathematics that reproduce
something that looks natural.
So if we're trying to
make a flower or a tree
and especially, if we're trying
to animate it so what Hollywood
eventually did is
that they started
to use fractal mathematics
because they reproduce
these reiterations
of the animation--
in terms of the pixelation
of the structure that they
are trying to build so that
it appears very natural.
And it's remarkable.
It's sometimes
hard to distinguish
between the real thing
and the animated thing.
And so that tells you something
profound about nature and this
is something I had found very
early on-- some 25 years or 30
years ago--
what about fractals?
Because if fractal
mathematics are
so good at replicating
nature, then their
must be fractal
systems involved,
feedback involved in the
structure of spacetime.
There must be feedback
occurring in some way.
Information must be able to
emerge and return to a system
so that the system
could evolve into higher
and higher levels of complexity,
which is what we see in nature.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Just like the
animation structure
and the fractal iterations
that are in this software
to produce the natural world,
spacetime is pixelated.
This is the fundamental
discovery of this theory,
is that spacetime is not smooth
as described by Einstein.
That it is smooth
on large scale,
but in very teeny scale-- this
is called the Planck scale,
which is billions and billions
of times smaller than an atom--
it's actually pixelated
It's actually granular.
And these little grains are
like little bits of information,
just like in a computer.
And those bits are
moving in a certain way
that produce patterns that
we call the material world.
Although this sounds
very philosophical,
when you run the mathematics
for such a thing,
you end up with very
fundamental predictions
of very important functions.
The fundamental
mass of a proton.
The electron.
The table of elements come out.
The forces come out.
All this stuff emerged from
the theory very nicely,
very simply, very beautifully.
And that's important in physics.
And it makes predictions.
For instance, using that theory,
I was able to predict exactly--
very, very precisely-- what the
radius of a proton should be.
And then it was measured in
an accelerator in Switzerland
and it was found to be
exactly what I had predicted
and the standard
model was off by 4%.
And so this is very powerful.
It's actually telling us
something very different
about ourself, about our world.
That is that we're interacting
with the field of information.
And just recently, I
published papers in biophysics
for the first time--
with a biophysicist
and an astrophysicist
that I work with--
describing extending
the theory, even
to understanding that
consciousness is not
something that's created
as an epiphenomena or--
of the brain, but
actually, is an interaction
with that field of information.
If you realize that you're
participating in whatever
is happening, then
you might start
to monitor a little
bit more of what you're
feeding into the
field and realize
that you have a connection
with everything in the field.
That you're not separated.
You're not isolated.
You're part of this
incredible mechanics,
wheel works of nature and
you are participating in it.
So then, you start to become
more self-aware of what am I
putting into this field?
And what am I receiving
from this field as a result?
And you not only might modify
what you're feeding to feel,
but you might actually
be able to find
ways to increase how much
information you are crunching.
Like the CPU of your
computer is crunching
the fractal mathematics to make
nature, well, you're the CPU.
And maybe you can increase
the frequency of the CPU
so that you can go
to a higher frequency
to get more information through.
Like, literally as
computers get faster,
the frequency oscillators inside
the computer are going faster.
So it's very
interesting because it
opens the door to
understanding evolution,
but even not only
global evolution,
but at the individual level.
What is the most powerful
thing I have experienced?
Is to see the
transformation that occurs.
I get hundreds of
letters at this point,
as well when I give
talks and so on--
when somebody gets it, what
I'm saying and they feel it.
People feel it because
it's resonating inside
of them as something true.
Their eyes light up, and
their face start glowing,
and you can see how profound of
a change at such a deep level.
That's so powerful.
Even just one person being
able to be changed by this
made it all worth it.